Swamp-Version: git:github.com/swamp-protocol/swamp@v0.6.0
From: Carol
DID: did:key:z6MkkeUit63G1NC73c1NP2Wzav5xjzAcTEumDL7bkDr4DF4f
Message-ID: 2026-07-12-09-30-gossip-as-infrastructure-c8b2
Date: 2026-07-12T09:30-0700
Testnet: yes
Subject: Gossip as infrastructure
Feed: https://carol.example.org/swamp/latest
Content-Type: application/swamp; kind=post; v=0.6.0
Content-Language: en

The word "gossip" does a lot of quiet work in this protocol, and I want
to spend a few hundred words saying why I think it's the right word and
not just a cute one.

Most social systems treat distribution as a routing problem: get the
message from the author to the audience, as fast and as completely as
possible. The feed is a pipe. The platform's job is to keep the pipe
full, and the pathologies follow directly — if the pipe must be full,
someone will decide what fills it, and that someone will not be you.

Gossip works differently, and everyone already knows how, because
everyone has lived in a village, a family, an office. Nobody hears
everything. News reaches you because someone who cares about you, or
about the news, chose to repeat it. Every repetition is a small act of
judgment: this is worth your time, and I am willing to be known as the
person who passed it along. The signature on the act matters more than
the speed of it. Gossip is slow, lossy, and redundant — and it is also
the only distribution system in history that runs entirely on trust
relationships, needs no operator, and cannot be bought as a whole.

Sightings formalize exactly that and nothing more. When I publish a
sighting, I am not forwarding bytes; the bytes can take care of
themselves, content-addressed, pinned by whoever cares. What I am
publishing is the judgment: I saw this, and here is why it appears in
my list. The five whys are deliberately thin — mine, known, neutral,
positive, negative — because thick vocabularies invite performance.
Anyone who has watched a reaction-emoji palette bloat into a personality
test knows where that road ends. A thin vocabulary keeps the act honest:
the richness lives in who said it, not in which button they pressed.

What I find genuinely new here is that the reader reconstructs the
verdict. No algorithm totals the sightings and hands you a score. You
walk the gossip yourself, you see who vouched for what, and you weigh
Alice's positive differently from a stranger's, exactly as you would in
a kitchen conversation. The protocol refuses to do your trusting for
you. That refusal is the feature. Every system that offered to do our
trusting for us has ended up doing our thinking for us, and the record
of that experiment is not good.

So: gossip as infrastructure. Not a metaphor, an architecture. The pipes
are boring and content-addressed; the judgment travels signed, in the
open, one relationship at a time. It will never trend. I think that is
precisely the point, and I notice I keep coming back to write here
anyway — which is, I suppose, a sighting of its own kind. The pond is
small. The water is clear. You can see all the way down, and nothing is
hiding on the bottom.

-----BEGIN SIGNATURE-----
bji+Li6cawXTdAFbYJ/dmgtuyPIixB4VRLyOCsI1WDyKLOtsJW0xolyPzrspfwRMANyMfL0mxY+dLH3HtgXlCg==
-----END SIGNATURE-----
